Successful software starts@reagan.com. Raygun APM
provides.net application performance monitoring. Unlike
anything you've experienced before, offering
greater clarity around how your
software is performing for your
customers more than any other
APM provider, easily detect and
diagnose issues impacting end users
and monitor every part of
your stack. In one powerful
solution, you can monitor unlimited
hosts, enjoy Richard trace data
and call stack information and
unblock those hard to solve
performance bottlenecks that affect your
web and mobile apps. It's
time to get back to
building great software instead of
fighting it. Start your journey
to better software quality and
try Reagan free@reagan.com. That's our
a Y G U n.com
today. Alright, this is Scott
Hanselman. This is another, We
started peanut. She is a
professor at the university. She's
the organizer of CSS comp
Argentina, a Google dev expert
and a front end developer.
How are you? Hi, I
guess, how are you? I
am very well and I'm
happy to be chatting with
you from so far away.
Thanks for coming on the
show. I'm checking out the
website for CSS comp ar.com.
This was the event that
you organized in August of
last year. How did it
go? It went great. We
have almost 400 attendees. It
was an amazing event. A
lot of people coming from
Africa, even from different countries
in Latin America. So it
was really nice. Yeah. And
when you put on an
event like this, you're doing
it as a nonprofit, but
I think sometimes what does
the, what does the customer
think or what does the
user think? Does the community
think that you're going to
get rich and famous because
you made a conference? Well,
probably yes, you have not
many people would think that
way. Since at least we
don't have many of these
events. It's really difficult to
explain to the people what
goes behind doors when we
make it sometimes, yeah, people
may think that we want
to make money out of
it. And especially since we
actually charge a ticket because
that's what we need to
actually run it. So there
is kind of a misconception
sometimes about making number of
conferences and how you kind
of prove that it is
actually nonprofit. So you have
to prove that it's nonprofit
and I've noticed that some
conferences do a better job
than others, about letting the
community know when a conferences
by the community and for
the community. You actually published
a by the numbers post
where you explained everything from
how many tickets you sold,
how many tickets you gave
away and even some context
about Argentina's economy. Yes, we
felt like there was a
need for us to publish
that because it's a second
time we make CSS scarf.
We didn't do that in
the forestation because we were
like overwhelmed for like how
much work we have when
we start planning. The second
edition that just at the
very beginning, we actually said
to ourselves, okay, we should
release the numbers because after
all we have nothing to
hide. And it will also
explain the, the value of
the ticket for the people
who are from winter Cyrus
and also from the people
who are from United States or
Europe, where you have a
very different price. So it's
really good to be able
to explain for all those
numbers, what is going on
in, in some economy, in
some country, how you can
make a great event with
the priorities, right? Like better
city community without like expending
a lot, any script that
we can actually show it
to the people on people
really appreciate it. I wonderful
feedback. And this was nine
months worth of planning. So
you started planning in December
of 2017 and the conference
took place in August. And
there's a couple of things
that are worth pointing out
there. You make the comment
that the monthly salary of
a web developer in Argentina
might be $1,000. Yes. Usually
they, the employees don't really
pay the ticket for, I
mean, the employers don't really
buy the ticket fund for
you. So it's out of
the money of the people
to attend. We don't really
sell tickets to companies. We
sell tickets to people. So
I sat with them from
pockets and economy situation in
the country is pretty bad.
There's the last year, the
worst 50% inflation's so planning
ahead and actually saving money
for an event is really
complicated for the people in
an everyday basis. And you
also pointed out something really
interesting, which I did not
even consider was that the
U S dollar at the
beginning of your planning was
one us dollar was about
19 Argentinian pesos. And then
just nine months later, it
was basically doubled that, which
must make it very hard
to budget for an event.
Yes. And in fact, we,
we are used to dollar
going up. We we've even
plan for dollar going up
a little bit in December.
We within a half that
in mind. So it was
really huge amounts of inflation
last year. And it was
so hard because we actually
made a mistake of saving
the money from the ticket
sales in vessels. You don't
do that. The nursing team,
you can say money in
festivals because then you will
lose a lot. So we
have an issue with, with
the conference that lose a
lot of money in the
middle because of that. Oh,
you mean you put them
like in the bank, in
the wrong currency so that
when the currency fluctuated, you
had less money the next
day. Exactly. Yes. That was
an issue. Yes. After all,
all the, the expenses, the
flights, the hotel reservations, they
are all actually in dollars.
That's a good point. Now
all the while you're also
trying to get sponsors. So
you had Mozilla and Google
and data art, all helping
you sponsor flights, hotel nights,
and you had a clever
idea that maybe they would
not give you the money
directly. Yes. And that was
really great because we didn't
want to go through the
hassle of like taxis and
all that. And after all
the way we wanted with
money from a sponsors to
be able to make the
event. So we proposed to
the sponsors, Hey, can, can
you cover this flight? And
they were glad to do
that. They were really excited
that we were able to
provide the transparency in that
way as well. Not them
giving us money, but partially
them paying for the expenses
itself. So it was really
good. And we had really
good feedback from a sponsors
as well. That's a really
smart thing to do. And
I was really impressed about
the level of transparency. I
feel like every conference should
do this. People I'll put
this a link in the
show notes, but people can
go and see exactly what
you paid for the venue,
how much you paid for
it. You know, communication and
talking to the, the people
who came paying for speakers
to come and, you know,
paying for everything like you
even put in like their
hotel, how much breakfast who
was business class. He even
bought them Argentinian chocolates. And
you kept track of all
of these costs. And it
was really cool that you
put that on the thing.
And then you said that
we have about $331 left,
which is not exact, but
close. It took a lot
of time, but I think
I really hope more conferences
will actually work towards that.
Well, that's openness. I'm trying
to spend a little bit
of time for making those
two things open to the
community. So it's easier to
understand the effort that goes
behind that. So it sounds
like it was a great
conference, but it's a huge
amount of work and it's
still a nonprofit. So will
you do it again this
year? No, we need to
take some time. We need
to sleep that next year
in 2020, we plan to
be back. Yeah, that's great.
Yeah. I think that when
we, the public or the
community attends a conference, we
appreciate all of your work,
but I don't think we
really understand the amount of
effort that's put into something
you could spend all year
organizing a conference. It's exhausting.
Yes. And it's also really
stressful. I mean, I saw
you have a product at
$20,000 on your shoulders and
it's so much work and
there are so many people
involved and it has to
go, right. It doesn't have
to go wrong. Yeah. That's
extremely stressful. So not only
do you organize the conference
like this, but you also
are a professor at the
national technological university in Argentina.
Yes. Yes. I haven't done
that for a couple of
years. And what are you
teaching? We are a teacher
frontend developer, and a little
bit of backend right now.
So it's really nice. How
much challenge do you have
when you're teaching web development
to students that may have
different levels of English proficiency?
A lot of challenge, because
on one hand and you
have to suppose that, okay,
this is people who are
writing in university. So you
have like this kind of
supposition in your head that
they will have a good
level of English because they
reach university. But the truth
is that it doesn't happen
everywhere. Our languages Spanish at
the same time, if you
go to public television, you
turn on the television or
you even go to public
channels and you put a
movie that will be in
Spanish, you actually end up
like even watching friends, TV
show in a Spanish. So
if someone gets to university,
that doesn't really mean they
have a good level of
English. And the harder thing
is that you have such
a different buyer of levels
of English in upwards of
2030 people. That is really,
really hard to know how
much resources in English. You
can actually give them without
being unfair to a lot
of them. How do you
deal with that? Because someone's
skill level or someone's, let's
just say their talent, their
ability, their inherent ability to
be good at web development.
It doesn't necessarily need to
be attached to their English
ability. There's lots of developers
that are amazing developers, but
they don't have fluent English.
Yes. It should never be
a barrier, but it is
mainly because the majority of
intermediate to advanced content of
what the abandonment and teaching
at the question on the
staff is in English. It's
not in Spanish, it's not
in Portuguese, in English. So
that is a big issue.
What I usually try to
do, but it's not the
solution, sadly, is to try
to give them something from
perhaps MDM, Mozilla developer network,
because they have, I got
a lot of good articles
with good translation. And even
though sometimes the Spanish version
is a little out of
date, but at you can
show them, okay. If you
don't get everything that is
going to know, you also
have this website that will
be able to help you.
So do you think that
the, the right thing for
people who are listening, like
we have, are people who
are listening to this podcast?
My Spanish is not very
good. Therefore, this podcast is
in English. What do you
tell the listener? Should they
all go and make advanced
technical content in their local,
late native language to help
people? Or should we have
everyone learn English and improve
their English? What's the solution.
I think that language is
shouldn't be a barrier. And
I think that it shouldn't
be a barrier for getting
a rice at your shop.
So I feel like that's
on one side, we really
need content in, in around
languages because of trying to
bring out that career. But
at the same time, we
also need content in our
own languages, simply because it's
a culture and thing as
well. I mean, waking and
showing within books in Spanish,
I enjoy it just because,
you know, that's my language.
And I get along with
really well, my chokes are
way better in Spanish, where
they are in English. So
I guess it's also about
spreading our culture and being
proud of the languages we
speak. Yeah. I think that's
a good point. I think
that, you know, there's the
joke about, I'd be, perhaps
you've heard this, right? If
you are trilingual, then you
might be a European. Or
if you're bilingual, you speak
two languages. If you're monolingual,
you're American, you know, I
think we, we just assume
that everyone should learn English.
And then we think that
maybe a computer translation is
an okay solution. But I
think if it's not a
good school, No. And I
have a really solid story
about computers on installation. So
I was teaching gate one
day at university and I
have to students who have
good translate the extension in
the browser installed. So he
went into the com and
he click on the translate
bottom. So all the website
and that in Spanish and
funny enough, not only the
website got translated, but also
the code symbols. So suddenly
that poor student felt that
get's ad was actually get
good. And he ended up
writing it Spanish version in
the console, and that didn't
work. I'm keeping a list
of why. So yeah. Automatic
translation. No, no, it doesn't
really matter. Oh, that's awful.
Yeah. I mean, if you're
mixing code and you're mixing
pros, those things are going
to get translated. You're going
to lose keywords. You're going
to lose context. And even
if we think we're being
helpful by doing automatic translations,
often, we're just going to
confuse the issue for people.
You have to be really
careful And try to test
it and be really sure
that it actually works. You're
a very good developer, probably
regardless. You do write bugs.
That's unavoidable. What is affordable
is wasting time trying to
track down the cause of
those bugs century.io provides full
stack error tracking, but lets
you monitor and fix problems.
In real time, you can
see the severity and the
scope of the error get
immediate access to the stack,
trace, connect the problem to
the commit that caused it
and fix it without delay
century. It's a name so
common that they have to
include the top level domain
in their advertising to make
sure you remember it. century.io,
that's century.io, open source, full
stack, web apps, native apps,
mobile games, smart oven mitts.
If you can program it,
they can make it far
easier to fix any errors
you encounter with it. Your
code may be broken. Let's
fix it together. Visit century.io.
Now you can give and
talks in multiple languages all
over South America, all over
the world. You've switched kind
of smoothly between languages. Do
you try to give advanced
talks to him to make
sure that there's more advanced
content or are you focused
more on beginner talks to
get more people involved in
web development? No, it, it
also been sewn on the
target on the audience and
where I am speaking. If
I'm speaking at a conference
or a meetup, I usually
give up advanced content because
the audience won't understand that.
But if I'm teaching, I
just begin with a basic
level because that's where my
students will understand. So it's
a mix. Really? Do you,
your English is fantastic. So
compliments on that. I I'm
curious though, what do you
think about the fact that
there's probably a lot of
people out there who have
great information, but because they
don't have fluent English that
they are afraid to present,
how do we get people
to present in their native
language? Do videos do workshops
because I want to get
that information outside into the
world, you know, put that
good information out. So other
people can learn from them.
That's something so important. And
I heard it a lot.
Like people are kind of
ashamed of the way they
speak or maybe of their
ask them and they, they
know, want to, they are
afraid. People will make fun
of them. And honestly, no
way. I mean, yes, big
more than one language. You
should be proud of yourself.
It doesn't about it. If
you have a little bit
of facet and it's that
real thing, people have actually
talked to me about that.
They told me no, I
don't really feel like giving
a talk in international conference
because my English is not
good enough. So you also
have a focus on accessibility
and I know we've talked
a little bit about language
and how language is a
thing that keeps, keeps the
web from being accessible to
people. But what are some
other things that you're excited
about on front end development
to make the web accessible?
Well, accessibility to something that
I began working on like
three years ago where we
kind of recently, I think
they go side by side
because it's, it's a way
of opening up the
of the web of the
internet to more people. They
shouldn't be it's another battery
or that we should just
put down, help people actually
get the information without any
issues You gave a talk
and I'll put a link
in the show notes called
the C is for accessibility.
What is the C what
do you mean by that?
The C is for accessibility.
That's really about choke. We
make him people who like
CFS. We usually begin sentences
say in the C is
for SK the style sheets,
but we totally change that.
And the C is for
cats. So this is where
accessibility is really, really bad
joke about it's all of
how CSS impacts accessibility. It
does because people have so
much power in their CSS.
It's one of the main
tools that they have available.
But a lot of people
don't realize how CSS can
impact contrast and visibility and
pseudo elements. Indeed. People usually
think that CFS is the
last thing on accessibility, that
everything is about HTML and
Java script. And it is
about that, but also at
display known when make a
disaster, if you've gone through
it right in accessibility. And
you're talking your talk on
accessibility about hiding about visually
hidden and semantically hidden. Maybe
you can explain the difference
between those things. Yes. Well,
when you initially heard something,
you are actually high, they
need to only from what
we can consider the site
as user, but you are
actually providing that content to
the screen reader user, for
example, they skip navigation links.
It's given them vacation links
or something that you put
at the top of your
website. So they use about
easy give or navigation. That's
I have to go through
all the menu if they
want to get to the
content. So they just click
on the, skip the vacation
and jump into the main
content. That's great for non-sighted
users, but also for people
who prefer cable navigation. So
you can visually hide it
from common users and activate
it and make it visible
for Coupa navigation and focus.
So that would be an
use case of racial healing
semantical here then will be
something like perhaps hiding the
content from the user who
is not cited, showing it
for the user who can
actually see that let's say
an use case for that
would be maybe, and this
is going to be a
really silly use case. But
if you have an image
that the machine is not
really important, so you just
hide it from the non
side, the user, so they
don't waste their time on
you show it to the
other kind of user. It
makes sense. I actually, like
I have had times where
I've put an image in,
but it might not be
an image that is really
deserves an alt tag. It
doesn't add any semantic value.
So I might want to,
like, I don't want to
hide information, but at the
same time, I don't want
to waste their time. Yeah.
Yeah. Interesting. And a lot
of those things are, again,
coming down to empathy, you
have to remember that people
view or see the web
differently as a sighted user.
I don't think I've ever
seen skip to main content,
but a non-sighted user sees
that all the time every
day. Yeah. And it's something
so important because when you
start like practicing with a
screen reader or some with
key for navigation, you're suddenly
began to realize how I
know, and it can be
to browser web without a
skip to navigation links, because
he has just got to
go through each one of
the links in the navigation
with your task giver. And
you're going to spend like
half an hour pressing time
until you finally get to
the content. You also point
out that the visual presentation
or the order, the way
that we see the order
of something sometimes because of
the way we've coded the
website, isn't the necessarily the
Dom order. And that can
be confusing to a screen
reader. Yes. Because you can
actually change the order of
elements with if they sold
their property in CSS. And
that will alter only the
visual part, but it will
alternate the order. So if
you tougher it, perhaps if
you are a sighted user
for cannot use your hands
really well, and you say
giver, then the navigation will
go perhaps the other way
around. It's not necessarily wrong,
but it is confusing. Hmm.
And I think that if
you had a form that
had that problem, I know
that a non-sighted user would
use their keyboard and they
could find themselves bouncing around
the form and not understanding
what's going on because the
order is not the same.
Yes. So is this something
that this seems overwhelming as
a person who is a
kind of a full stack
developer, it seems like you
would really need a dedicated
team or a dedicated person
to keep track of all
these different things. I know
I'm going to get it
wrong if I, if I
don't have a dedicated team
for accessible. Yeah. I mean,
it makes companies, I think
it's almost compulsory if we
can. I mean, if you
can afford an attraction half
of, then they tried to
team, and if you are
in a small company, hopefully
you will hire a front
end developer for that small
to only do like Preact,
but also accessibility. Do you
find that this is something
that you focus on, like
exclusively or are you just
have a list of stuff
that you have to get
done on the front end
and you do the best
you can and just continuous
improvement. I do try to
do the best that I
can in everything that I'm
thrown out, but I do
focus on accessibility and I
also try to do educate
my, my team work in
the company. I work on
accessibility. So in the end,
I, I try not to
be the only person who
can solve accessibility issues. One
of the things that I
like about your talks and
the things that I think
make your talk special and
we'll have links, of course,
to the videos of your
talks in both English and
Spanish, is that not only
do you do live coding,
which I love to do,
I do a live coding
in my talks, but I
think that you also put
things in context, in historical
context, how important is it
for new developers and the
developers that you teach at
the university that they understand
the history of? Why something
is a certain way? Oh,
well, I show it to
know why things are the
way they are. So I
think it comes like natural
that I actually tried to
explain the history of why
this is happened. Is this
thing happening? I do the
same when I teach. I
think there's really a reason
more than I like to
do that. I, I like
to know why this is
happening. So I like to
explain it. I, I just
call people with show the
history of, of things as
much as I do. There's
just an overwhelming amount of
things to know. If you
think about like someone starting
today, if someone this morning,
anywhere in the world, maybe
in Latin America, maybe somewhere.
So I'm going to be
a web developer. There's so
much to know there's the
history there's maybe they need
to know. And a certain
amount of English, where do
you send people? How do
you even start on day
one of class one? Wow.
It's like an overwhelming experience.
Let's see. When we go
to dress one in, in
the course that I teach
at university, it's actually a
completely theoretical and not practical
class because I just began
talking about the history of
interrupts. How, how, for example,
speed connection, sexually improve websites.
I think that's the way
of begin and is trying
to understand how we got
here in kind of mess.
We have right now with
so many technologies. And at
the same time, it's just
straight to really teach good
basis and then give good
resources to the students. And
they can keep on researching
after the course, if they
want to. And they can
actually make themselves experts in
a certain area In your
blog posts. And in your
demos, you use a lot
of code pen. You like
have nice clean HTML and
nice clean CSS. And when
I learned, and when I
was teaching at university many
years ago, view source was
a big part of my
life. And sometimes I see
something amazing and I do
a view source and I'm
sad that it's a mess.
Yeah. I, with you, I
think that, you know, performance
is good, but if we
are taking it too far,
I really began, like I
began like expect elements and
view source and try to
understand how something is made.
And it's really sad when
you cannot do this anymore,
because everything is kind of
compressed in the cycle of
maybe quite kilobytes of coal.
So I really like that.
Yeah. It's extremely frustrating. Even
when I'm doing an inspect
element, I feel like I'm
digging through a bunch of
dibs, get things out of
the way. Cause I really
want to see how they
built this. I'm the web
somehow became a thing that
we decompiler and compile and
as opposed to learn from,
yeah, that's overwhelming. Another thing
to point out that last
year, you put out an
SVG animation with JavaScript class
at Pluralsight. How have you
found learning and how people
learn as, because you, you
would do videos, you speak
at a conference, you do
a Pluralsight, and then you
also do university classes. Which
of those has you found
the most effective way for
someone to learn web development?
I, I am a strong
believer of people having different
ways of learning. Like I
can learn. I learn a
lot with someone teaching me,
like in person, maybe I
don't learn anything. If I
want to read a book
of programming, I don't really
get anything I'm really bad
at reading books. So I
believe that the best way
for me is having someone
to teach me in front
of me, but it differs
a lot. And depending on
the person, and I guess
that's, that's the most important
thing, because if you can
provide content on learning tools
in those different ways, then
you can get more people
to learn more like silly,
like, okay, you feel, you
feel learn better by reading
them. This is a book.
If you learn better by
press in a class with
a person in front of
you, you can do that
as well. Yeah. You've got
a great blog post on
your kind of tips and
tricks clues on how to
teach and learn web design.
And the first thing that
you say is don't say
something is obvious because it's
really only obvious to you.
Yes. That's, that's something really
hard. I mean, sometimes in,
in their name, because we
are really used to like
writing code and it works
on the set, but for
someone who has factually beginner
and it can be so
overwhelming, so many tools, so
many codes and perhaps not
even the coding, the language.
So you have to be
ready comfort with Your language,
20 worse in each situation
to about making someone feel
like they are stupid. One
day they are just learning.
Yeah. And when, and when
you pick that correct word,
I assume that you are,
you're teaching in Spanish at
the university in Argentina, but
you're bouncing back and forth
between English and Spanish. How
much time do you spend
defining English words or giving
or, you know, how do
you know which word is
the correct word to use
as you are really being
bilingual? Because you're teaching them
another language, CSS or HTML.
I don't think there's a
right answer to that. That's
probably the answer, his question,
try to do my best.
And I find myself many,
many times saying that we're
in the wrong language, like
an embarrassingly amount of time.
Well, I'm certainly not wanting
to speak because I gave
this, I did this whole
interview with you in a,
in a, in English solos.
Well, thank you so much
for chatting with me today.
Thank you for having me.
I'm going to put links
to all the show notes
so you can go and
see Eva's website. She, the
videos and the slides of
the different talks that chief's
given. And you can certainly
follow her on Twitter. This
has been another episode of
Hansel minutes and we'll see
you again. .